Greetings, all. Thanks for being here.

I figure the number of contacts on this list has achieved threshold potential, enough at least to precipitate this, my first dispatch as introduction to the idea of Potlatch in its becoming over the past six or so months, across ideations and haphazard experimentations. My name is Will. An easily resolved paradox here is that both I and Potlatch forfeit strong privacy for the sake of Potlatch's possibility and legitimation as strongly private exchange system for network participants. This is NOT Silk Road (no guns or drugs). I do reserve the right to remain inscrutable at times, though. This first dispatch positions the project in concept and theory. Next week I will turn to nuts and bolts of implementation, the "how?"

Potlatch as idea, for me, began with The Gift, as it always already had for other communities of practice (more below). I am grateful for the fortuitous context for Potlatch's germination. Its kernel and originary impasse was thus: I wanted to gift a copy of a book to a small-time theory podcaster. I had engaged with him on twitter, but I determined that asking for his irl address would violate the conditions of our relation. The impasse remained impasse. I gave no gift. I resolved to figure out how this barrier might be overcome.

My 'day job' is as PhD candidate in anthropology, and anthropologists have long thought through the gift and gift exchange as a way of considering extra-market exchange. Of course, it's rarely (never?) quite so simple as an either/or framing. The spirit of the gift haunts our market relations, even if it doesn't fire the circuitry of our capitalist manner of exchange quite so hot as it does in other cultural milieus that charge the gift with the energy to mark the separation between their communities' insides from outsides (gift as boundary object, as the inside-outside point). Gift giving and receiving take effect inside the community.     

Potlatch, as protocol, references potlatch as ceremonial feasts of indigenous cultures of the Pacific Northwest in the United States and British Columbia in Canada, where gift-exchanging gatherings-together gathered together kin group with kin group under the semi-arbitrary and always contested designation of ethnicity, tribe, polity. Gifts were exchanged as ways of forging reciprocal bonds and performing conspicuous authority (The more valuable the gift given, the greater the value of the units of power accrued to the giver. Is this just another kind of exchange value?). 

Thinking with the Gift begs the questions (or, at least, it begged my questions), "Whence comes and whither goes the gift online today in the context of our culture's (online culture, as if that's a single thing) broad and chronic alienation? How might the spirit of the gift return to animate our way of trading on the Internet, to stimulate again gatherings-together?" And in more direct relation to the originary impasse of the book and the podcaster, "Whence comes and whither goes the gift online today when the whence and the whither to the gift might remain unnameable, since we might never know the irl name or address of our gift relation's other?" And how do we return material to the gift in an online economy shot through with abstract exchange (tokens, for one)? 

This is the problem of the gift online, especially under conditions of anonymity and privacy online, when irl addresses are often not so readily forthcoming, for good and not primarily criminal reasons. Might this defensive anonymity and privacy not have the unforeseen effect of being one trigger for the contagion of our chronic alienation? Privacy is one of a vanishingly few means of exercising autonomy on the outside of the panopticonic (https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panopticon) viewshed of our unprotected browsers (Use a VPN if you don't already!). How might the spirit of the gift be given space to breathe in the interstices of the structures necessary for our exercise of autonomy?

And this might beg your question, "How does the Gift and all this relate to, 'Potlatch is a protocol for blind, secure, peer-to-peer exchange of physical goods—no names, no addresses, no accounts'?" 

Thanks for tuning in. It won't usually be so theoretical. More later, Potlatch.
